“Every artist was first an amateur.” ―  Ralph Waldo Emerson. This quote says it all and should be the inspiration for everyone to look inward and find their own art. My name Is Brandon Johnson. I am an artist and musician from a little farm town in rural Ohio. To give you some context, I graduated in a class of 80 people. It was a tight knit town where everyone knew everything about everyone and if you were different, you were wrong. Growing up in such a one sided and strongly opinionated setting, an artist isn’t exactly viewed as manly and was disregarded by most of the community. At first I was,  and definitely felt, outcasted for doing the things I loved to do. This lead to me benching my passions and pursuing what was expected of any boy my age, sports. Thankfully it did not take me too long to figure out that I had made the wrong decision. I then embraced the outcast label and continued to pursue my passion for art and music.

Art and music are two of the many forms of expression that I believe reside in all of us from birth. Think about it, every single one of us found a world of wonder in creating art as children. To quote one of the greats, Pablo Picasso, “All children are born artists, the problem is to remain an artist as we grow up.” It’s in everyone, and though it may fade, it will always remain and can always be rekindled. That’s because they’re universal languages that not only have healing properties incomparable to anything else for the artist themselves, but are also notorious for having the same benefits for their audiences. A study performed at Harvard University states that “Creative activities can relieve stress, aid communication, and help arrest cognitive decline.”* I believe the answer to the infamous “Big Question” is simply: To create! I truly believe that our purpose in life as humans is to be what we were born to be, artists, and leave our mark via creation. All progression of human evolution has come from the art of creation.

The reason I love art and music so much is not because I’m good at them, because that’s definitely debatablle, but rather for a number of completely unexpected, at least to myself, reasons and benefits I discovered well into my many years of creating with them. At first, I just enjoyed the physical aspects. The sights and sounds. The colors, the chords. The shading and the melodies. However, after years of thinking these were merely hobbies and something I enjoy doing for fun, I found that they were my medicine. I found they both had ways of teaching me things about myself that I never could have learned without. I found that they both were my escape from reality when I needed a break. I found that they treated my anxiety and depression in ways that chemicals will never be able to do. Ultimately, I found myself in my art and music. 

Everyone should and deserves to find their art forms. Art has no boundaries. It is open to any and all interpretation. Art doesn’t have to be hung on in a museum, performed in a stadium, taped to the fridge or played on an iPod. Art can be yours and yours alone while still holding the power and beauty that is the release of your pains, the learning of self, and the record of a moment in time. Art isn’t just paints, music instruments, dance routines, or theatre productions. Art is releasing ideas and feelings in the form of creation. Thoreau said it best in saying “It’s not what you look at that matters, it’s what you see.” Think of that the next time you look in a mirror. I hope you see an artist and I hope that artist finds themselves the same way I did.


https://ngoeke.medium.com/all-children-are-born-artists-the-problem-is-to-remain-an-artist-as-we-grow-up-pablo-picasso-9e6e1938ea2e

https://www.google.com/books/edition/Selections_from_the_Writings_of_Ralph_Wa/lw-oUaATAjAC?hl=en&gbpv=1&dq=every+artist+is+born+an+amateur+emmerson&pg=PT44&printsec=frontcover

https://www.health.harvard.edu/mental-health/the-healing-power-of-art

